Add "how to" for the setter Argument Clinic directive (#1245)
python/devguide: development-tools/clinic.rst

.. versionadded:: 3.13

> .. _clinic-howto-getter-setter:

Reviewer: Also keep the old one to prevent linkrot:

```suggestion
.. _clinic-howto-getter:
.. _clinic-howto-getter-setter:
```

How to generate a getter
------------------------

> "Getters" and "Setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Getters" and "setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
```

See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` and :c:type:`setter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.

> You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directive to generate an "impl" function for a
> getter using Argument Clinic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directives to generate
"impl" functions for a getters and setters in Argument Clinic.
```

shows the use of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @setter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get(textio *self, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get_impl(self);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

    static int
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set(textio *self, PyObject *value, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        int return_value;
        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set_impl(self, value);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();
        return return_value;
    }

> Note that each of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` should be declared at separated definitions.

Reviewer: Maybe this?
```suggestion
Note that each of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` should be declared in separated definitions.
```

decorated by :py:class:`property`.

> Note that each of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` should be declared in separated definitions.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this sentence is needed. Alternatively, something like this?

```suggestion
.. note::

   Getters and setters must be declared as separate functions.
```

Reviewer 2: Perhaps also note that the "value" parameter is implicitly added:

```suggestion
.. note::

   Getters and setters must be declared as separate functions.
   The "value" parameter for a "setter" is added implicitly by Argument Clinic.
```

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-pygetsetdef:

> How to declare PyGetSetDef functions
> ------------------------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
How to declare ``PyGetSetDef`` functions
----------------------------------------
```

Should this get literal markup?

> How to declare ``PyGetSetDef`` functions
> ----------------------------------------

Reviewer 4: or maybe

```suggestion
How to declare ``PyGetSetDef`` ("getter/setter") functions
----------------------------------------------------------
```

"Getters" and "setters" are C functions defined in a :c:type:`PyGetSetDef` struct

> that facilitate property-like access for a class.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that facilitate :py:class:`property`-like access for a class.
```

> "Getters" and "setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
> See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` and :c:type:`setter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"Getters" and "setters" are C functions defined in a :c:type:`PyGetSetDef` struct
 that facilitate property-like access for a class.
```
I'm not 100% sure about my proposed wording, but currently I saw two (minor) issues here:
* both "getter" and "setter" link to the same thing (and it's not particularly evident what the thing is);
* the paragraph sounds a bit "choppy", with 3 short sentences that repeat "getter" and "setter".

Author: Yeah your suggestion looks better. Not using repeatable word is quite difficult to me :)

You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directives to generate

> "impl" functions for using Argument Clinic.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
"impl" functions using Argument Clinic.
```

shows the use of ``@getter`` in combination with
This example --- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/textio.c` ---
shows the use of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io._Buffered.closed
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @setter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io__Buffered_closed_get(buffered *self, void *context)
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get(textio *self, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io__Buffered_closed_get_impl(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get_impl(self);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

And then the implementation will work the same as a Python method which is

> decorated by :py:class:`property`.

Reviewer 4: Not sure this should be deleted; the Python REPL example now has no introduction explaining why it's there

Author: Okay, I will supplement to the above descriptions.

Author: Hmm.. I think that `"Getters" and "setters" are C functions defined in a :c:type:`PyGetSetDef` struct
that facilitate :py:class:`property`-like access for a class` will be enough.

>    The "value" parameter for a "setter" is added implicitly by Argument Clinic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The *value* parameter for a "setter" is added implicitly by Argument Clinic.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: I still think it would make more sense to the reader if we added this here. Immediately above the snippet illustrating the generated C code, we state

> The generated glue code looks like this:

But this second snippet below that sentence isn't generated C code at all!

```suggestion

And then the implementation will work the same as a Python method which is
decorated by :py:class:`property`:

```

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-pygetsetdef:

How to declare PyGetSetDef functions
------------------------------------

"Getters" and "setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` and :c:type:`setter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.
You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directives to generate

> "impl" functions for getters and setters in Argument Clinic.

Reviewer 2: Hm, I think we can make this more succinct:

- we don't need to repeat "getters and setters" again; we already said that three times in the preceding lines
- "in Argument Clinic" is implicit; I'd say drop it :)

```suggestion
"impl" functions for these.
```

What do you think?

Author: Looks more simpler!

Reviewer 4: Oh, I actually quite like appending "using Argument Clinic" to this paragraph -- while it's true the whole document is about Argument Clinic, people won't necessarily have read the preceding sections before jumping to this section, and this paragraph is introductory to this subtopic

Author: Added!

shows the use of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @setter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get(textio *self, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get_impl(self);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

    static int
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set(textio *self, PyObject *value, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        int return_value;
        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set_impl(self, value);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();
        return return_value;
    }

> The implementation will then work the same as a Python method which is
> decorated by :py:class:`property`.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should drop this sentence. We already talked about property-like access in the beginning of this how-to.

```suggestion
```

.. _clinic-howto-getter:
.. _clinic-howto-getter-setter:

How to generate a getter
------------------------

"Getters" and "setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` and :c:type:`setter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.
You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directive to generate an "impl" function for a
getter using Argument Clinic.

> This example -- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/textio.c` --

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example --- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/textio.c` ---
```

shows the use of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @setter
    _io.TextIOWrapper._CHUNK_SIZE
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get(textio *self, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_get_impl(self);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

    static int
    _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set(textio *self, PyObject *value, void *Py_UNUSED(context))
    {
        int return_value;
        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io_TextIOWrapper__CHUNK_SIZE_set_impl(self, value);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();
        return return_value;
    }

> Note that each of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` should be declared in separated definitions.
> And then the implementation will work the same as a Python method which is
> decorated by :py:class:`property`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The implementation will then work the same as a Python method which is
decorated by :py:class:`property`.
Note that each of ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` should be declared in separated definitions.
```
Starting a sentence with "And" sounds a bit weird, especially with a note between the example and the sentence.  I'd move the note after the sentence, and drop the "And" anyway.

"Getters" and "setters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` and :c:type:`setter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.
You can use the ``@getter`` and ``@setter`` directives to generate

> "impl" functions for a getters and setters in Argument Clinic.

Reviewer 2: Typo.

```suggestion
"impl" functions for getters and setters in Argument Clinic.
```
